Hello welcome in this video we are going to be looking at how we can make an moving platform more configurable
so that it can move in any direction.
You can see here it's not moving directly along any axis.
Actually going along a little bit of a diagonal line.
And we're going to be achieving this while making it easy for the designer to do this by.
Look if I click on my moving platform actor I can see my target location is a little point that I can
just fiddle with in space like this.
Isn't that cool.
So we're going to be doing that very easily using someone real built in features.
Let's dive in and see how.
Okay let's just take a minute and improve some of our game play here.
So the moment we've got this platform it moves off into the distance and it does a pretty bad job of
that because it's just moving in the x direction.
And I'd really rather it was a bit more intelligent than that.
Okay so let's do it so that a game designer could specify that it moves from where the platform is currently
located to another point in space that the game designer specifies.
Now we would quite like to do this by just putting a target location as an F vector somewhere in code
so just a you property that is configurable will go over to that platform and platform.
You can see we've got a speed you property I'd like there to be an effect which is the target location
as well.
Now one problem there is if we put in that you Property In fact let's go ahead and do that.
Now I'm going to create a new property.
Anywhere because I want to be able to edit it in the it's better in the map.
And if we do an F vector and now it's not a stance not a pointer because the vector is just a quite
simple struct and then we're going to call this a target location semicolon fix the end indication which
Visual Studio insists on and go ahead and build that.
Now I'm going to head over into unreel and wait for the build to build complete.
Let's go ahead and have a look at what that looks like.
If I look at my moving platform and go into its details pane you'll see we've got this target location
which we can tweak as all very well and good but I cant see the target location in the world which is
really frustrating because if I want to say well I want that target location to be here it just doesnt
really do it for me.
It doesn't have that target location in its in the world.
So as a designer that would be very confusing.
Like what do these numbers mean like.
Where do I put it all those kind of question so we really want is to have this kind of gizmo to move
that target location around.
Unfortunately in real we can do this really easily.
Common really the best way to go and look for these things is to go and google for them.
So thats what I would suggest you do.
Its hard to remember the exact code and I never try to I just try to remember the keywords so this is
a gizmo that we're talking about it could also be called a widget if you like for an F vector for a
new property.
And you'll find that search for this brings up first result very easily the.
Property metter equals make edit widget equals true which is a bit weird and a bit esoteric.
But if we copy that property and put it into a new property in the header.
Just after the edit anywhere then compile.
We should see something rather interesting happen in our project.
So let me head back in to the projects to see that we now have these words floating words.
Target location which looks promising.
Let me go ahead and edit that target location and notice that there is a little diamond that moves.
If I go ahead and select that diamond I can lift it up.
I can move it over to the left a little bit in the x axis I can bring up so I'm going to basically create
a platform that moves from here up here up higher in the air.
So it's kind of more of an elevator than a sideways moving platform.
So that's great.
It's great.
This diamond and I had to do very little effort to do that.
I could just use a new property which is fantastic.
Now one thing to notice about the dieman this current position the effect is that this diamond creates
is that it's actually a relative position.
You notice that if I reset it so it's 0 0 0 it's actually at the centre of the cube.
Now that's important because it's not a global location a global location if receptor zero would have
reset somewhere in the middle of this map.
But is reset to the centre of the cube so it's an offset from the centre of the cube.
That's a good thing to remember going forward.
So let's have a look and a bit of revision about vectors on how to move from point A to Point.
So let me just explain the space here we are going to be doing diagrams with 2D vectors.
But everything I talk about with two dimensional vectors also works with three dimensional vectors.
So remember that vectors are basically a wardian bits in two dimensional space.
So here I've got an x axis and a Y axis and the vectors can be drawn as arrows such as this vector A.
But remember that they can also be coordinates.
So this could be a long two.
In the x-axis and up 3 in the y axis for example.
Now I haven't put any numbers down here because I just want to concentrate on the shapes rather than
on the specific mathematics of the situation.
So we've got a point.
A You've got a point B and we want to move from a to point B.
So we want to find out what the arrow from point A to Point B is.
Well that is the vector B minus a.
Now you can remember this quite easily by saying that we want to move backwards along the vector A and
forwards along the vector B which leads to positive and negative A.
Okay so that would give us the distance and the vector between point A and Point B so we could move
there all in one go.
But if we want to move there at a constant speed how would we achieve that.
Well to move there at a certain speed we first need to normalize the vector which means to set it back
to being a size of 1.
Now 1 What I hear you ask.
What unit is this in.
Well it doesn't matter what unit is for the vector for the mathematics but for unreel situation we tend
to use centimetres so this tends to be one centimetre.
Then what we do is we can multiply that by whatever we like.
We can multiply it by the speed for example in order to make a movement that is the right apparent speed
when you actually play it in ticks.
Okay so now it's time for your challenge for making a moving platform moving our platform.
And this is what you're going to do.
You're going to implement an F vector property much like I have done already if you haven't done so
already.
You are going to calculate the direction vector that I've shown on the previous slide and you are going
to turn that into movement by updating the location vector by the right speed with the right corrections
for Delta time etc..
Then I dont want you to worry about returning just yet that's going to be subject to the next lecture.
And so we just want to be moving from point A to Point B and potentially carry on through point B.
That's a challenge.
Go ahead and give it a shot.
Okay welcome back.
So we are going to dive right in to the challenge.
I'm going to hop into a visual studio.
Go to my moving platform C++.
And here in the tick under the has authority this is where we're going to be doing the calculations.
Okay.
So first things first I want to be calculating that direction vector so f a vector.
Direction equals.
Now it's going to be the target location.
Minus the location.
Reason for that being the target location is be the place where trying to get location is a starting
point.
We move negatively along location positively along the target location to get from A to B then we want
to normalize to normalize.
We can we've got a result back from here which is a vector so we can do that vector dot and then we
can try and normalize that vector.
Now we can just search for normalized there's a few different functions that we could use.
Here you've got safe normal normalize get safe normal get unsafe normal.
If you look at the documentation for each of these and I do recommend that you do you'll find that normalize
will actually modify the vector in place whereas it gets safe normal will create a new vector.
Now I tend to like things that don't modify the vectors in place so we're going to be using the get
safe normal.
Now what's the difference between get safe normal get unsafe normal Well unsafe normal has no protections
for when numbers are really really small.
So get safe.
Normal has that protection again.
If you read the documentation it tells you all of that.
Go ahead and say that hit save now.
One thing to note is that I'm talking about reading the documentation a lot here and that's because
in the challenges I do expect you to go ahead and read the relevant documentation.
If you can't remember how to do the f vector stuff for example.
Now that's generally the case.
I have to do that all the time.
I don't remember every single method call.
It's something that programmers do all the time.
Look in their documentation.
So we've got the direction we've normalized the direction.
Now I want to do is update the location with that direction so that's going to be instead of just building
this affecter with the speed and Delta time in the x direction.
I'm going to multiply the speed by Delta time by the direction itself so let's remove this effect coating
around the speed and Delta time and I'm going to replace that with actual multiplication with the direction
vector.
Because multiplying a float by a vector will increase the magnitude of that direction or multiply the
magnitudes of the vector as in the size of the arrow.
If the size of the arrow is 1 then it's a basically the same as saying we're going to use that direction
and just increase its size to be equal to and the speed multiplied by Delta time.
Okay so we've increased and created the difference in the location we're updating that location.
Now if I go ahead and save and build we're going to notice something rather weird which is that this
platform won't actually be heading towards a target location at all it will be moving in some other
weird direction.
Reason for that is was mentioned earlier in the video is that this target location is in local space
whereas this location is it.
And global space so we're updating a global space with a local space.
It doesn't make very much sense so we're heading off to where it thinks this target location is in global
space which is probably somewhere over here.
So we need to transform this target location to a global location so go and do an F vector.
Global.
Target location.
And use this to store that transformed Tiger location now and to transform it.
We need to get the actors transforms to get transform.
And that is the conversion between local and global space for this particular actor.
And then we can use a method on there called transform funny enough to transform from global to local.
Now my auto complete isn't quite working just yet.
Now go took a little bit of messing around to get a pop up.
Now we can go from get transformed dot.
To look for a method called transport.
Now there's a few of them.
There's inverse transform.
This forward transforms we want the normal transform because a transform goes from local to global.
By default and inverse transform goes from global to local.
So we want the transform and we've got to choose between a transformed position and a transpond vector.
What does that mean.
Well let's go and have a look in the documentation just to be sure what is meant by F Ector.
So it's transform.
Position.
On the f transform.
Property of unreal.
Let's go and find that documentation.
So go f transform.
Let's go and find the relevant transform functions get lots of instances that have transform obviously.
So let's just scroll down and find the key word I think is going to be position isn't it.
So we've got a few dealing with position.
We've got position position no scale.
Let's have a look at position first of all.
Okay.
Not very helpful.
How about transform vector.
Again not massively helpful but if we go and look at the F transform documentation here at the top we're
going to see that it mentions position vectors and direction vectors being different.
What's the difference.
Well with a position vector it will apply scale rotation and translation.
Whereas with the direction back day only does scale and rotation now to understand why that's going
to have a look at a diagram again.
Suppose the A and B of our vectors are positions whereas the B minus a is a direction.
Now what happens is if we move a and b we don't want add direction vector to change it's going to still
be the same space between the two.
If we scale the whole world then yes we want the direction vector to be scaled as well.
But if we just move a and b we don't want add direction vector to be changed.
That's why there are two different types of translation.
So with that said the type of translation we want is for position because we do want translation of
this.
Target location.
So let's do a transform position.
And we're going to take in the target location.
So we can plan and go ahead and hit build for this.
But we mustn't forget that we want to use the top global target location instead of the target location
for ADD direction.
So go ahead hit save we can cancel that bill I believe get cancell build cancel and go ahead and build
again.
Okay.
Can Bill complete.
Let's go back over in to and real hit play and see if our moving platform is moving in the right direction
or it's definitely going upwards and towards our target location.
So I am very happy that we have achieved our challenge and we have created a moving platform which a
designer can use and actually use to create interesting and cool puzzles.
So let's see you in the next video where we will be making it go backwards and forwards between these
points.